All right let's start learning some of the different types that typescript comes with and we're going
to take it one by one.
And don't worry you're going to have access to this fall.
The end of this video so you can use it as a reference.
The first thing is a Boolean type A true or false.
And that's very easy to do.
We can just say a lot is cool.
Be a Boolean type.
So you always see the syntax the semi-colon and then the type that we want it to be.
So in our case we can just say true and everything is working fine.
We have a bully and type again just to prove that that it works.
You see that we get an error.
Now every time we do something other than Boolean right now it's easy what's next.
Well we've seen this one before let's do a number type.
And by the way you notice that because this is a TS file a top secret file.
Let me close this because this is a typescript file.
We see that we get some highlighting.
If this was in java script it wouldn't work but because this is a typescript file and my editor set
up with typescript syntax it has nice highlighting for me.
All right number.
This one again is fairly easy.
I can say that let h.
Which is a number equals 56.
Nice and simple save.
And just to double check if we go to our javascript file we see the output.
All right I'm going to close the config file here because we don't need it.
The next one is obviously a string type.
Another one that we see and this string type lets say is let all color be a string.
And we'll say that this equals Brown
and we save and everything works.
And by the way this works with yes six template strings as well.
Let me show you I can do that.
Favorite quote for example.
B a string and this string is going to say
I'm not bald.
I'm only
and the age that we defined appear.
So if we save that you see that that still works.
No whereas with our compiler and we have everything.
I'll put it correctly.
So it detects Templi strings strings as well.
All right.
Not too bad so far fairly easy.
What about arrays.
Well with a race we can do lot.
Pat's and let's say it's a it's an array of strings.
What we can do strings.
And then the array symbol and we simply do equals and we'll just give it an array nice simple array
of words.
Ken Antipyrine now.
Kat dog and lost to pig save and you get her.
Never.
I said that says cannot find name strings.
And again a little bit of a Miss you see that I have the underlying here cannot find names strings.
Thank you typescript.
This should have been string.
Save perfect again.
Another great thing that I keep mentioning with typescript is this ability to constantly tell you whenever
you're making the mistake before you even run the code.
There's actually another way that you can declare arrays with typescript and let me show you let's two
paths too and I can do it this way as well.
Which is actually my preferred method.
Array.
String like this.
And that's the same thing as the above.
So in here I can say that this is a line dragon.
Some scary pets in here and a lizard save and everything still works.
Sorry to all the natural progression.
My guess is maybe to test objects so let's say lot
wizard equal an object.
So let's say in here is just going to have a
I save.
I get no errors because I haven't declared any types but and here I say object and save all right.
Everything still works if I make wizard
equal to 5 I get in there.
We're expecting a type of object.
All right that's working and you notice here that it's lower case object because uppercase object you
can use in javascript Brey you can do object dot key and so on and so forth.
So you've got to make sure that this is lowercase object and we're going to get a little bit deeper
in objects and later videos.
Don't worry because with objects types do get a little bit more complicated.
All right.
I think that's good for now.
These are basics.
There are a few others that I want to cover.
Actually you don't want to just to cover our basics list to Noal and undefined as well.
And Noland undefined again.
So far it's been pretty easy because they're named exactly like they are in javascript.
We can't say let more you call undefined and that's going to equal actual javascript undefined again.
Everything is compiling perfectly.
And if I go ahead and do all that no call no
and that equals actual javascript no.
Because remember this is a type script type.
This is the actual javascript value.
If I save everything still works all right.
So that was extremely easy.
Super easy because we've just used everything that we already knew in javascript but the power of typescript
is that we get a few x share features that javascript doesn't have.
Remember it's a superset of Javascript.
So in the next video we're going to learn some of these new types.
I'll see in that one.
Bye bye.